Using RDBMS & SQL With php | PHP Tutorial #22
Introduction
The next series of tutorials is about database. Before making our hands dirty with creating databases in Php, we have to cover some theoretical portion about database.

In this lesson you will learn about Introduction to database, RDBMS, MSQL and the advantages to store data in the form of tables.

What is Database
A database is a kind of storage usually implemented inside a server for small scale applications and outside the server if the data is huge or complex in size.

In website development, most of the data is fetched and store to the database at the server side.

There are many types of database systems which have been developed since now. The choice among different database systems depends upon the nature of the application. Here in this lesson and for the rest of this course, we will be following MYSQL. We will discuss about it in the next sections.

What is RDBMS
RDBMS stands for Relational Data Base Management Systems. It is the basis for SQL and all other modern database languages. RDBMS store data in tables, with most commercial relational database management systems using Structured Query Language (SQL) to access the database.

A Relational database management system (RDBMS) is a database management system (DBMS) that is based on the relational model as introduced by E. F. Codd.

Introduction to SQL
SQL is a standard language (Structured Query Language) for storing, retrieving and manipulating data in the database.

There are some terms needs to be defined related to Database tables. Consider the following table for the next terms.

What is a table?
A table is structed form of data. The data is stored in the form of database objects called tables. The basic building blocks of a table are rows and columns. Refer to the table above. Suppose the name of the above table is Employees.

What is a field?
A table is divided into smaller entities called fields. In the above employees table, ID, NAME, AGE, ADDRESS and SALARY are its fields.

What is a Row or Record?

Record is also known as row of data. For example, in the Employees table above, there are 7 rows of data refer to as 7 records alternatively.

What is a column?
Each vertical entity of the database table is named as column. In the Employees table, we have 5 columns.

Why to prefer Tables over File system to store data
Data can also be stored in the files. But there are many complexities that arise with the passage of time, so computer developers have to introduce and prefer DB over file systems.

File system does not support quick searching of data.
File system is not efficient for millions of records.
File system cannot develop relationship between data.
Data cannot be filtered from the files.
